# PrestaShop mail SMTP plugin ”Samos”
Having problems with your e-shop not sending e-mails, especially when you operate in localhost? You are not alone. Over 
1000 projects all over the world already use ”Samos” to send their e-mails reliably.

Our goal is to make email deliverability easy and reliable. We want to ensure your e-mails reach the recipient inbox.
**No more lost sales**.

”Samos” fixes your e-mail deliverability by overriding the core Mail class, forcing  it to use PHPMailer accompanied 
with a proper SMTP provider when sending e-mails.

No configuration needed in the module. Just make sure you have saved the proper settings regarding your SMTP 
credentials.

## What is SMTP?
SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) is an industry standard for sending emails. Proper SMTP configuration improves 
e-mail deliverability significantly by using authentication.

Popular e-mail clients like Gmail, Yahoo, etc are in a constant battle with e-mail spammers. One of the things they 
look at is if an e-mail actually comes from the location it is supposed to.

If authentication has not been implemented, then e-mails either go in the SPAM folder or worst, do not get delivered 
at all.

This is a problem for a lot of PrestaShop owners, because - by default - PrestaShop uses some PHP powered mail 
function to send e-mails generated by the core, its native or third party modules.

Moreover, most of the hosting companies are not fine-tuned to properly host and deliver e-mails.

A mixture of these two issues forces your vital e-mails not to get delivered.

## How does ”Samos” work?
Our SMTP plugin easily resolves e-mail related issues by changing how your PrestaShop project sends e-mails. We 
reconfigure the Mail::send function to fire via PHPMailer.

When using the SMTP protocol, e-mails are sent using the respective provider’s direct API. This means that even if 
your web host has blocked the SMTP ports, your e-mails can still reach their destination.

## Credits
PHPMailer - https://github.com/PHPMailer/PHPMailer

## What is the history behind the name ”Samos”?
Samos, as you well know, is a greek island. Not one of the famous ones. But it is worth visiting, as well.
The name has been selected because its proximity with the term SMTP and the humanitarian crisis that has been 
deployed on the island regarding the illegal immigrants, trying to destabilize my country. More info [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samos).
